---
title: Manage API keys
url: https://redis.io/docs/latest/operate/rc/api/get-started/manage-api-keys/
retrieved_utc: '2026-04-09T20:45:55.605280+00:00'
tags:
- official
- docs
- sitemap
fetched_url: https://redis.io/docs/latest/operate/rc/api/get-started/manage-api-keys/index.html.md
---

# Manage API keys

```json metadata
{
  "title": "Manage API keys",
  "description": "How to use the Redis Cloud console to create and manage API user keys for your account's team owners",
  "categories": ["docs","operate","rc"],
  "tableOfContents": {"sections":[{"id":"api-account-key","title":"API account key"},{"children":[{"id":"create-a-new-user-key-secret","title":"Create a new user key {#secret}"},{"id":"delete-a-user-key","title":"Delete a user key"},{"id":"manage-cidr-allow-list","title":"Manage CIDR allow list"}],"id":"api-user-keys","title":"API user keys"}]}

,
  "codeExamples": []
}
```Every REST API request must include the following API keys:

1. The **Account key** identifies the account associated with the Redis Cloud subscription.

2. The **User key** identifies the user and (optionally) the context of a request.  Generated by account owners.

Use the **API Keys** tab of the **Access Management** screen to manage your keys:

1. Sign in to your [Redis Cloud account](https://cloud.redis.io) as an account owner.

1. From the menu, choose **Access Management** and then select the **API Keys** tab.

    

If an **Enable API** button appears, select it to [enable the REST API]() for your account.



## API account key

The **API account key** is used as the value of the `x-api-key` HTTP header in order to authenticate a REST API request.

By default, the **API account key** is masked; that is, it is obscured for security reasons.  You can use the **Show** button to display the key and the **Hide** button to mask it.

 &nbsp; 

The **Copy** button copies the account key to the Clipboard.



## API user keys

**API user keys** (also known as _secret keys_) are used as the value of the `x-api-secret-key` HTTP header used to authenticate a REST API request.

In this context, _user_ refers to the account used to sign in to the Redis Cloud console.  Users must have an owner (read-write) or viewer (read-only) role.

Users can have more than one user key; however, users should not share user keys.

### Create a new user key {#secret}

Use the **Add** button to create a new user key.



When you do this, you're prompted for the **Key name** and the associated **User name**.



The key name:

- Must be between 10 and 50 characters long
- Can contain alphanumeric characters, hyphens, and underscores. Spaces are not allowed.

The selected user must have an owner, viewer, or logs viewer role.

Select **Create** to create the new key.  



When you do this, the **API user key** dialog appears.

<br/>


This is the only time the value of the user key is available.  Save it to a secure location before closing the dialog box.  <br/><br/>
If you lose the user key value, it cannot be retrieved.  If this happens, create a new key to replace the lost one.


The **Finish** button is inactive until you copy the key to the clipboard. After you save the user key, you can also select **Copy account key** to save the account key.

### Delete a user key

To delete a user key:

1.  Use the **API Keys** tab of the **Access Management** screen to locate the target key. Hover over the key to display the **Delete** button.

    <br/>

2.  Select the **Delete** button.

    

3.  This displays the **Delete API secret key** dialog box.  

    <br/>

    Select the **Delete** button to confirm.

### Manage CIDR allow list

By default, REST API requests are allowed from all IP addresses.  To limit access to specific addresses, define a CIDR allow list for the user key.

To manage the CIDR allow list:

1.  Use the **API Keys** tab of the **Access Management** screen to locate the target key. Hover over the key to display the **Manage** link.

    

2.  Select the **Manage** link in the **CIDR allow list** column; this displays the **Manage CIDR allow list** dialog box.

    

3.  Enter each allowed IP address in [CIDR format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classless_Inter-Domain_Routing#CIDR_notation) (example: `127.1.0.0/24`) and then select the **Save** button.

    

    Use the **Add CIDR rule** button to add additional addresses to the list.

    

    Use the **Edit** button to change the address for a rule or the **Delete button** to remove a rule.

     &nbsp;  
